In the last lecture we set up react native maps, let's now use it and I want to use it here on our share
place screen. There we have the pick location component and if we have a look at this component, pick
location, there we get this view which should serve or which currently serves as a placeholder
and we got our view where we essentially have the button which should auto-locate us.
Now I'm going to replace this view which is the placeholder with a real map view now because that's of
course our goal,
it now will also make sense that this is a class based component because there will be some internal state
I want to manage in here and as always, you can of course connect that to redux to manage it application
wide
but what I plan on doing here actually is only relevant to this component.
So first of all, let's import something from react native maps and that something is actually the map
view,
now you can name this whatever you want because it's the default export of that package but I'm going to
name it map view written like this from react native maps.
This is the import path
we have to add to use it.
Now we want to dump it into our component, we want to use that instead of the placeholder,
so I'm going to replace this view which is our placeholder with my map view, now we can write this as self-closing
tag here for now
and now we need to configure this map view to display something,
for example we need to tell which part of the world do we want to see, so which location do we want to
see
and then how much should it be zoomed in
so how much should fit into the box we're rendering as a map here, we'll also need to set the styles
so to define the width and so on of this map view box.
So these are the things I want to do here,
therefore the first two things we need to define are the initial region prop which is a prop which allows
us well to pass an object describing the part of the map we want to view and the normal style prop to
give this map view some styling.
So let's start with the style and I'll go back and we no longer need the old placeholder style here, I guess
so I'll name it
map and in there, I want to set a width and height.
So let's go with width 100% and maybe a height of 250 pixels,
remember this pick location complete in the end will be rendered inside a scroll view so we won't have
problems with the height and so on.
So with that, let's assign this here, let's assign styles and
map as a value for style on our map view.
Now of course we also want to initialize our initial region here,
I'm going to manage that through state because this region needs to be flexible,
we need to be able to change it so that when the user picks a location, we actually re-render the view with
that picked location as the initial region,
so therefore I'm going to manage it in my state and there I'll add a focused region or focused location,
whatever you want to name it property
and now how is such a region defined?
You can read this of course in the official react native maps docs,
a region is basically two coordinates, latitude and longitude which you commonly use to describe locations
plus the two deltas of these properties.
So you have to think of a region of course not as a single point but a single point in a square,
so we need to add two pieces of information,
how big of a radius do we basically want to display it, though that would be a circle,
so that's why we have two dimensions,
how much additional latitude and longitude do we want to display, so that if we have the .11 which
would be a single point, we can create a rectangle by adding the information, also show everything which
is half a latitude, to say it like this above that and below that and how much longitude is it above
and below that.
So what we also have is the latitude delta and the longitude delta
and you have to make sure that you get these spelled correctly, longitude and latitude and the deltas
because we will pass this state to initial region and map view react native maps expects to get an
argument of this style, of this structure.
So with these four pieces of information, we can start.
Now the question of course is with which region do we want to start?
Now I picked a nice location, San Francisco, you can of course always pick another region, just go to
Google Maps, search something and then in the url, you will find latitude and longitude,
so I'll start with 37.7900352 as latitude
and my starting longitude will be -122.4013726
.
and of course again you can pick other locations.
Now regarding the delta, I like the zooming level
basically, if I pick 0.0122 and you can always play around with that to see how it changes
and now the longitude delta should take the aspect ratio of our device into account.
So what I want to do is I want to calculate this dynamically here, so therefore I will actually import
the dimensions API in this file and then here, I will use dimensions get the window and there, the width
divided by dimensions
get window and now the height, this gives me the aspect ratio and now I want to multiply the aspect ratio
with this latitude delta factor, so that the longitude delta matches this, taking our aspect ratio into
account,
so here, I'll multiply it with that, now
we can also split this over multiple lines to make it a bit easier to read.
So with that, we got a focused location set up,
let's now assign this here by simply referring to this state focused location and saving it
and now with that, we should be able to see a map
and if you're seeing errors here, this is pretty normal after you added native libraries to the project,
simply close both apps here, maybe even uninstall them on the devices to have a really clear fresh
new start,
also close that development server running an extra terminal which was opened automatically and then simply
rerun iOS and Android to completely rebuild these projects taking into account the new native libraries
you added, like in this case react native maps,
so that's pretty normal that you need to do this once you added native packages.
So here I finished for iOS,
let me do the same for Android
and it should then automatically install them and launch them and here you see for iOS, it's already working,
Android is also currently being built
and with that, we got both running.
Now let's see if that works,
let's enter some data so that we can log in here and
let's go to share place and it works for the
iPhone here, I see a map
so that's working.
Thanks to the scrolls view,
we haven't got an issue here,
I like that view here.
So with that, let's now test it on Android,
so there I'll also enter my credentials, side note, you always need to pick the @ sign from the keyboard
down there, from the soft keyboard
and on Android, you might end up with that, a blank screen for the map.
You see the Google icon, so it somehow work but you don't see the map.
Now for one, there are detailed troubleshooting guides on the react native maps github page on the
documentation
where this problem here is solved solid, blank map issue on Android,
so definitely feel free to go through these but not all of these have to work
for example we use different stylings and still it will work because I found that there are two major
problems which can cause this,
let's dive into them.
For that I open the Android studio and there, the first thing you should ensure is that under tools SDK
manager, that there you ensure that under SDK tools,
you got Google Play services checked and installed,
so make sure that this is the case. The second thing which could cause this is the emulator, the simulator
you're running, so under abt manager where you see all your devices, here for example I'm using an API
of 27 which at the point that I'm recording this is a cutting edge API, so a cutting edge Android version
and that can cause a problem too.
So what I'll do is I'll quit this emulator, the Android emulator and I'm going to create a new virtual
device and there, I'll go again with the pixel
but then here I'll pick the Oreo Android version which is the latest one or the newest one besides our cutting
edge API
here at the point of time I'm recording this,
you can always download them by clicking on the download link if you don't have them yet.
So I pick Android and then I'll just leave the defaults as they are, click finish and then I'll start
this brand new Oreo simulator. And thereafter with Google Play services installed and this simulator
using Android Oreo, it should work so
let's wait for this to boot up
and now that it did boot,
let's go to our project and rerun npm run Android to build it again and ship it to this new simulator
and once it did ship to it, so once the building finished, we should have our application here.
And now let's try this again,
let's quickly log in here
and now here, you should see the map too with the same snippet as we see it here on the right.
So now we get Google Maps here in the Google in the Android app and we've got Apple maps here in the
iOS app, with that,
let's now continue and let's see how we can finally use this to allow the user to locate himself or
pick a place manually on the map.